The next issue in
raw data is also very common
when pulling data from
other sources and then
combining the data
into an Excel sheet.
We can see here that
Excel has flagged
the top chart with
little green triangles.
When you click on a cell,
the error sign will pop up.
By clicking on that error sign,
we can see that this number
is actually stored as text.
In the arrow menu,
we have the function there to
convert the cells to
numbers one by one.
If a number is not
stored as a number,
we cannot use some of
our most common functions
in the data such
as sum or average.
In this example, we
have a sum function at
the bottom of our table but
it is returning a zero.
Also, lookup functions
will not recognize that
the text version of number
10 is the same as
the numerical version of 10.
So we will not return a match.
Now, we'll learn
two easy ways to convert
the data to numbers for
a large set of data all at once.
The first way to do this
is the value function.
To do this, type
equal sign value,
open parentheses, and
reference the cell which
we would like to show as a value.
I'll close the parentheses
and click Enter.
You can see now
that we don't have
the little green arrow or
any errors coming up from Excel.
I'll drag down the formula.
Only copy formulas to ensure that
our table's format stays intact.
Now, you can see that
the sum function is working.
The second way to
fix this problem is
using something we've
already covered,
the text to columns function.
As a reminder to do this,
we'll select the raw data,
click into the data ribbon
and click the text
to columns button.
We can keep the file type as
delimited here and click Next.
I'm just going to
uncheck these options as
we are only working with
one row in our example.
The text to columns function
knows that these are numbers.
You can see that general
converts numeric
values to numbers,
date values two dates,
and all remaining values to text.
I will choose to insert
the values in our table that we
have down below and click finish.
It's a good check to see that
our sum worked in
this table as well.